docs/forensics.md, before:

# Forensics

Forensics is an interesting category of CTF problems and requires knowing how data can be left behind on backups, logs, or other artifacts.

## Windows Analysis

Querying for information on a Windows box can be annoying. An excellent general reference is the [SANS Windows forensics poster](https://www.sans.org/security-resources/posters/windows-forensic-analysis/170/download).

### Searching Files and Permissions

```powershell
# List hidden files; -Force shows all files (including hidden).
Get-ChildItem -Force
Get-ChildItem -Hidden

# Show all streams for a file.
dir /r file.txt
Get-Item file.txt -Stream *

# Recursive search for filename patterns.
dir /s needle
Get-ChildItem -Path C:\*needle* -Recurse -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue -Force

# Native and PowerShell options for recursive search of file contents.
findstr /s needle *
Get-ChildItem -Path C:\ -Filter *needle* -Recurse -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue -Force

# Find the volume label for a drive.
Get-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\Software\Microsoft\Windows Search\VolumeInfoCache\Z:" | Select-Object -Property VolumeLabel

# search for file by hash
Get-ChildItem -Path C:\ -Recurse -Force | Get-FileHash -Algorithm MD5 | Where-Object hash -eq <TARGET HASH> | Select path
```

### Querying System Information

The below groups of snippets make use of both PowerShell and native system binaries.

#### SID-related Queries

```powershell
# Get SIDs of all local users.
Get-LocalUser | Select-Object SID

# Options for getting SID of current local user.
whoami /user
wmic useraccount where name='%username%' get sid

# Get SID by domain username.
wmic useraccount where (name='<USERNAME>' and domain='<DOMAIN>') get sid

# Get user by SID.
wmic useraccount where sid='<SID>' get name
```

#### Process Querying

```powershell
# Dump data from all running processes.
Get-CimInstance Win32_Process | Format-List *

# Filter by process name.
Get-CimInstante Win32_Process -Filter "name = 'notepad.exe'" | Format-List *

# Get binary path for all running processes.
Get-Process | Select-Object -ExpandProperty Path

# Get more-detailed metadata from a single process.
Get-Process -ID <PID> | Select-Object *
(Get-Process -ID <PID>).StartInfo.Environment
```

#### Service and Scheduled Task Querying

```powershell
# Get formatted list of services.
Get-Service | Where Status -eq 'Running' | Out-GridView
Get-Service | Where-Object {$_.Status -eq 'Running'} | Out-File -filepath .\running-services.txt

# Dump data from all services; second command limits to running services.
Get-CimInstance Win32_Service | Format-List *
Get-CimInstance Win32_Service -Filter "state = 'running'" | Format-List *

# Scheduled task querying.
Get-ScheduledTask | Get-ScheduledTaskInfo
Get-WmiObject Win32_ScheduledJob
```

### Security Event IDs of Note

There are some events in the security event log that are probably worth checking out first. A nice complete reference can he found [here](https://www.ultimatewindowssecurity.com/securitylog/encyclopedia/), but some highlights are shown in the table below.

| Source     | ID                | Description                              |
| ---------- | ----------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| SQL Server | 24301             | Change password succeeded                |
| SQL Server | 24298             | Database login succeeded                 |
| SQL Server | 24303             | Change own password                      |
| SQL Server | 24309             | Copy password                            |
| SQL Server | 24354             | Issued a create external library command |
| Windows    | 528,4624          | Logon success                            |
| Windows    | 529-537,539,4625  | Logon failure variations                 |
| Windows    | 538,551,4647      | Logoff                                   |
| Windows    | 592,4688          | Process creation                         |
| Windows    | 601               | Attempt to install service               |
| Windows    | 602,4698          | Scheduled task created                   |
| Windows    | 610               | New trusted domain                       |
| Windows    | 624,4720,4741     | Account created                          |
| Windows    | 626               | Account enabled                          |
| Windows    | 627               | Change password attempt                  |
| Windows    | 629               | Account disabled                         |
| Windows    | 630,4743          | Account deleted                          |
| Windows    | 642,4738,4742     | Account changed                          |
| Windows    | 645-647           | Computer account created/changed/deleted |
| Windows    | 678-681           | Various Logon alerts                     |
| Windows    | 685               | Account name changed                     |
| Windows    | 686               | Password of user accessed                |
| Windows    | 851,852,4946,4947 | Firewall application/port exceptions     |
| Windows    | 861               | Firewall detected listening application  |
| Windows    | 5025,5034         | Firewall service stopped                 |
| Windows    | 4648              | Logon attempted using explicit creds     |
| Windows    | 4782              | Password hash of an account was accessed |
| Windows    | 5379,5381,5382    | Credentials were read                    |
| Windows    | 5142,5143         | Network share object added/modified      |

### Querying the Logs

There are a few ways to query the event logs. If you have access to the Windows machine under triage, it makes sense to use PowerShell.

#### Using `Get-WinEvent`

`Get-EventLog` is a nice tool for pulling back event information from the local computer, but does not have any functionality for filtering results on remote computers before pulling them pack for local filtering with `Where-Object`.

`Get-WinEvent` allows for filtering of events before pulling them back from other systems. Below are some useful `Get-WinEvent` snippets:

```powershell
# Limit the number of returned events.
Get-WinExent -MaxEvents 1

# Query the System log.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='System'}

# Query multiple levels.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Level=1,2,3}

# Query on another computer in the network.
Get-WinEvent -Computer SomeOtherComputer

# Query around a specific time range; can be useful for correlating suspicious events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';StartTime="10/29/2019 11:45:00 AM";EndTime="10/29/2019 12:00:00 PM"}

# Filtering by event ID.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Application';Id=4107}

# Filtering via xpath to look at specific usernames.
Get-WinEvent -LogName 'Security' -FilterXPath "* [System[(EventId='4264')]] and * [EventData[@Name='TargetUserName'] and (Data='Brian' or Data='Administrator')]]"

# Search for data within events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';data='Some Suspicious String'}

# Fuzzy searching with Where-Object.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Application';Id=602} | ?{$_.Message -like "*scheduled tasks suspicious content*"}

# Filter for interesting service / schtasks events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Id=601,602,4698} | Export-CSV service-schtasks-events.csv

# Filter for interesting account modification events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Id=624,626,627,629,630,642,645,646,647,685,4720,4738,4741,4743,4742} | Export-CSV account-mod-events.csv

# Filter for interesting login / logoff events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Id=528,529,530,531,532,533,534,535,536,537,538,539,551,678,679,680,681,4624,4625,4647,4648} | Export-CSV login-logoff-events.csv

# Filter for interesting firewall events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Id=851,852,861,4946,4947,5025,5034} | Export-CSV firewall-events.csv

# Filter for credential access events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Id=686,4782,5379,5381,5382} | Export-CSV credential-access-events.csv
```

#### Investigating Suspicious Entries

If you come across a base64-encoded PowerShell payload (think `[Convert]::FromBase64String`), you can decode it with:

```sh
echo -n <BASE64 BLOB> | base64 -d | iconv -f UTF-16LE -t ASCII
```

## Corrupted Files

This section covers techniques for identifying corrupted files and trying to repair them.

### PNG Images

Find the PNG format specification [here](http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/spec/1.2/PNG-Structure.html).

See [this writeup](https://web.archive.org/web/20191019011759/http://fuzyll.com/2015/uncorrupting-a-png-image/) for solving a more complication PNG-repairing problem that involves bruteforcing data to resolve chunk CRC and length errors.

### GZIP Archives

Find the GZIP archive specification [here](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1952).

To force `gunzip` to extract as many blocks as possible before the corrupted portions of the file, pipe your archive on stdin:

```sh
gunzip < archive.gz
```

For some potential quick wins, try the [`gzrecover`](https://github.com/arenn/gzrt) tool.

### ZIP Archives

Find the ZIP format specification [here](https://pkware.cachefly.net/webdocs/casestudies/APPNOTE.TXT).

To get comprehensive details about the internal structure of a ZIP file, a good first step is the [`zipdetails`](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/man1/zipdetails.1.html) program.

The Trail of Bits CTF guide [forensics section](https://trailofbits.github.io/ctf/forensics/#archive-files) has nice tips on dealing with ZIP archives.

## File System Dumps

### Expert Witness Files

I've found the [FTK Imager tool](https://marketing.accessdata.com/ftkimager4.2.0) to be the best at examining images of this format.

## Memory Dumps

### Volatility

[Volatility](https://github.com/volatilityfoundation/volatility) is a tool for analyzing RAM dumps from a variety of operating systems. Below are some useful snippets:

TODO: comprehensive list of scans with pros/cons

```sh
export DUMP=./memory.vmem
export PROFILE=Win7SP0x64

# Get basic info for a dump, including recommended profiles.
volatility -f $DUMP imageinfo

# View processes; see also pslist and psscan.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE pstree

# Dump the memory of a specific process.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE memdump -p <PID> -D dump/

# View commands run in the command prompt.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE connections

# View network connections; use `consoles` to also get command prompt output.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE cmdscan

# View environment variables.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE envars

# View internet explorer history.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE iehistory
```

The best practical applications of Volatility I've seen come from [Andrea Fortuna's website](https://www.andreafortuna.org/). [Here](https://www.andreafortuna.org/2018/03/02/volatility-tips-extract-text-typed-in-a-notepad-window-from-a-windows-memory-dump/) is an example of extracting strings written within a notepad process.

### Recovering "Live" Memory from `hiberfil.sys` on Windows

In order to support hibernation mode, Windows maintains a `hiberfil.sys` file. This file can be translated into a format accepted by Volatility and other memory analysis tools. This file must typically be carved from a disk image like FTK Imager or Autopsy.

Tools like [Arsenal Recon's offering](https://arsenalrecon.com/2018/02/windows-hibernation-infographic/) can extract relevant data from these files. Volatility's `imagecopy` plugin also supports translating `hiberfil.sys` files:

```sh
volatility imagecopy -f hiberfil.sys -O hiber_dump.img --profile=Win7SP0x64
```

Useful resources include [Andrea Fortuna's post on the topic](https://www.andreafortuna.org/2019/05/15/how-to-read-windows-hibernation-file-hiberfil-sys-to-extract-forensic-data/) and [Windows Hibernation File for Fun and Profit](https://www.blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-08/Suiche/BH_US_08_Suiche_Windows_hibernation.pdf).

## iOS Forensics

TODO

## Application Forensics

### Keybase

The best research I've seen on Keybase encrypted chat forensics can be found [here](https://hatsoffsecurity.com/2020/02/23/keybase-io-forensics-investigation/).

### Signal

The [`signal_for_android_decryption`](https://github.com/mossblaser/signal_for_android_decryption) tool can be used for parsing and decrypting the contents of Signal backups on Android devices. [This accompanying article](http://jhnet.co.uk/articles/signal_backups) explains the layout of these backup archives well.

For a challenge that involves use of the previously-mentioned tool and applies an IV-reuse attack, see [caBalS puking](https://ctftime.org/writeup/31880) from HXP CTF 2021.

### Git Repositories

Looking at the changes that occured between `HEAD` and specific hash:

```sh
git show deadbeef
```

Commit message:

Add forensics notes from recent htb ctf

docs/forensics.md, after:

# Forensics

Forensics is an interesting category of CTF problems and requires knowing how data can be left behind on backups, logs, or other artifacts.

## Windows Analysis

Querying for information on a Windows box can be annoying. An excellent general reference is the [SANS Windows forensics poster](https://www.sans.org/security-resources/posters/windows-forensic-analysis/170/download).

### Searching Files and Permissions

```powershell
# List hidden files; -Force shows all files (including hidden).
Get-ChildItem -Force
Get-ChildItem -Hidden

# Show all streams for a file.
dir /r file.txt
Get-Item file.txt -Stream *

# Recursive search for filename patterns.
dir /s needle
Get-ChildItem -Path C:\*needle* -Recurse -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue -Force

# Native and PowerShell options for recursive search of file contents.
findstr /s needle *
Get-ChildItem -Path C:\ -Filter *needle* -Recurse -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue -Force

# Find the volume label for a drive.
Get-ItemProperty -Path "HKLM:\Software\Microsoft\Windows Search\VolumeInfoCache\Z:" | Select-Object -Property VolumeLabel

# search for file by hash
Get-ChildItem -Path C:\ -Recurse -Force | Get-FileHash -Algorithm MD5 | Where-Object hash -eq <TARGET HASH> | Select path
```

### Querying System Information

The below groups of snippets make use of both PowerShell and native system binaries.

#### SID-related Queries

```powershell
# Get SIDs of all local users.
Get-LocalUser | Select-Object SID

# Options for getting SID of current local user.
whoami /user
wmic useraccount where name='%username%' get sid

# Get SID by domain username.
wmic useraccount where (name='<USERNAME>' and domain='<DOMAIN>') get sid

# Get user by SID.
wmic useraccount where sid='<SID>' get name
```

#### Process Querying

```powershell
# Dump data from all running processes.
Get-CimInstance Win32_Process | Format-List *

# Filter by process name.
Get-CimInstante Win32_Process -Filter "name = 'notepad.exe'" | Format-List *

# Get binary path for all running processes.
Get-Process | Select-Object -ExpandProperty Path

# Get more-detailed metadata from a single process.
Get-Process -ID <PID> | Select-Object *
(Get-Process -ID <PID>).StartInfo.Environment
```

#### Service and Scheduled Task Querying

```powershell
# Get formatted list of services.
Get-Service | Where Status -eq 'Running' | Out-GridView
Get-Service | Where-Object {$_.Status -eq 'Running'} | Out-File -filepath .\running-services.txt

# Dump data from all services; second command limits to running services.
Get-CimInstance Win32_Service | Format-List *
Get-CimInstance Win32_Service -Filter "state = 'running'" | Format-List *

# Scheduled task querying.
Get-ScheduledTask | Get-ScheduledTaskInfo
Get-WmiObject Win32_ScheduledJob
```

### Security Event IDs of Note

There are some events in the security event log that are probably worth checking out first. A nice complete reference can he found [here](https://www.ultimatewindowssecurity.com/securitylog/encyclopedia/), but some highlights are shown in the table below.

| Source     | ID                | Description                              |
| ---------- | ----------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| SQL Server | 24301             | Change password succeeded                |
| SQL Server | 24298             | Database login succeeded                 |
| SQL Server | 24303             | Change own password                      |
| SQL Server | 24309             | Copy password                            |
| SQL Server | 24354             | Issued a create external library command |
| Windows    | 528,4624          | Logon success                            |
| Windows    | 529-537,539,4625  | Logon failure variations                 |
| Windows    | 538,551,4647      | Logoff                                   |
| Windows    | 592,4688          | Process creation                         |
| Windows    | 601               | Attempt to install service               |
| Windows    | 602,4698          | Scheduled task created                   |
| Windows    | 610               | New trusted domain                       |
| Windows    | 624,4720,4741     | Account created                          |
| Windows    | 626               | Account enabled                          |
| Windows    | 627               | Change password attempt                  |
| Windows    | 629               | Account disabled                         |
| Windows    | 630,4743          | Account deleted                          |
| Windows    | 642,4738,4742     | Account changed                          |
| Windows    | 645-647           | Computer account created/changed/deleted |
| Windows    | 678-681           | Various Logon alerts                     |
| Windows    | 685               | Account name changed                     |
| Windows    | 686               | Password of user accessed                |
| Windows    | 851,852,4946,4947 | Firewall application/port exceptions     |
| Windows    | 861               | Firewall detected listening application  |
| Windows    | 5025,5034         | Firewall service stopped                 |
| Windows    | 4648              | Logon attempted using explicit creds     |
| Windows    | 4782              | Password hash of an account was accessed |
| Windows    | 5379,5381,5382    | Credentials were read                    |
| Windows    | 5142,5143         | Network share object added/modified      |

### Querying the Logs

There are a few ways to query the event logs. If you have access to the Windows machine under triage, it makes sense to use PowerShell.

#### Using `Get-WinEvent`

`Get-EventLog` is a nice tool for pulling back event information from the local computer, but does not have any functionality for filtering results on remote computers before pulling them pack for local filtering with `Where-Object`.

`Get-WinEvent` allows for filtering of events before pulling them back from other systems. Below are some useful `Get-WinEvent` snippets:

```powershell
# Limit the number of returned events.
Get-WinExent -MaxEvents 1

# Query the System log.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='System'}

# Query multiple levels.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Level=1,2,3}

# Query on another computer in the network.
Get-WinEvent -Computer SomeOtherComputer

# Query around a specific time range; can be useful for correlating suspicious events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';StartTime="10/29/2019 11:45:00 AM";EndTime="10/29/2019 12:00:00 PM"}

# Filtering by event ID.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Application';Id=4107}

# Filtering via xpath to look at specific usernames.
Get-WinEvent -LogName 'Security' -FilterXPath "* [System[(EventId='4264')]] and * [EventData[@Name='TargetUserName'] and (Data='Brian' or Data='Administrator')]]"

# Search for data within events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';data='Some Suspicious String'}

# Fuzzy searching with Where-Object.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Application';Id=602} | ?{$_.Message -like "*scheduled tasks suspicious content*"}

# Filter for interesting service / schtasks events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Id=601,602,4698} | Export-CSV service-schtasks-events.csv

# Filter for interesting account modification events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Id=624,626,627,629,630,642,645,646,647,685,4720,4738,4741,4743,4742} | Export-CSV account-mod-events.csv

# Filter for interesting login / logoff events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Id=528,529,530,531,532,533,534,535,536,537,538,539,551,678,679,680,681,4624,4625,4647,4648} | Export-CSV login-logoff-events.csv

# Filter for interesting firewall events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Id=851,852,861,4946,4947,5025,5034} | Export-CSV firewall-events.csv

# Filter for credential access events.
Get-WinEvent -FilterHashTable @{LogName='Security';Id=686,4782,5379,5381,5382} | Export-CSV credential-access-events.csv
```

#### Investigating Suspicious Entries

If you come across a base64-encoded PowerShell payload (think `[Convert]::FromBase64String`), you can decode it with:

```sh
echo -n <BASE64 BLOB> | base64 -d | iconv -f UTF-16LE -t ASCII
```

## Corrupted Files

This section covers techniques for identifying corrupted files and trying to repair them.

### PNG Images

Find the PNG format specification [here](http://www.libpng.org/pub/png/spec/1.2/PNG-Structure.html).

See [this writeup](https://web.archive.org/web/20191019011759/http://fuzyll.com/2015/uncorrupting-a-png-image/) for solving a more complication PNG-repairing problem that involves bruteforcing data to resolve chunk CRC and length errors.

### GZIP Archives

Find the GZIP archive specification [here](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1952).

To force `gunzip` to extract as many blocks as possible before the corrupted portions of the file, pipe your archive on stdin:

```sh
gunzip < archive.gz
```

For some potential quick wins, try the [`gzrecover`](https://github.com/arenn/gzrt) tool.

### ZIP Archives

Find the ZIP format specification [here](https://pkware.cachefly.net/webdocs/casestudies/APPNOTE.TXT).

To get comprehensive details about the internal structure of a ZIP file, a good first step is the [`zipdetails`](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/man1/zipdetails.1.html) program.

The Trail of Bits CTF guide [forensics section](https://trailofbits.github.io/ctf/forensics/#archive-files) has nice tips on dealing with ZIP archives.

## File System Dumps

### Expert Witness Files

I've found the [FTK Imager tool](https://marketing.accessdata.com/ftkimager4.2.0) to be the best at examining images of this format.

### Repairing RAID Arrays

When given disks from a RAID array, they can be XORed togethered to recover the damaged disks.

Then, the RAID array can be repaired and re-mounted using the following steps ([reference](https://github.com/lukaszhandy/ctfs/blob/main/Cyber%20Apocalypse%202022%20Intergalactic%20Chase/forensic/Intergalactic%20Recovery/solve.txt)):

```sh
sudo losetup /dev/loop1 disk1.img
sudo losetup /dev/loop2 disk2.img
sudo losetup /dev/loop3 disk3.img

sudo mdadm --create --assume-clean --level=5 --raid-devices=3 /dev/md0 /dev/loop1 /dev/loop2 /dev/loop3

sudo mount /dev/md0 /mnt/raidarray
```

Note: don't always assume the disk numbers correspond to their order in the RAID array.

A nice writeup and some scripts related to RAID recovery can be found in [this writeup](https://blog.teknogeek.io/post/tokyo-westerns-ctf-2016-deadnas/) from TokyoWesterns 2016.

See [this writeup](https://ctf.rip/volgactf-2016-eva-admin/) for a challenge that combines RAID repair and decrypting a LUKS file system.

## Memory Dumps

### Volatility

[Volatility](https://github.com/volatilityfoundation/volatility) is a tool for analyzing RAM dumps from a variety of operating systems. Below are some useful snippets:

TODO: comprehensive list of scans with pros/cons

```sh
export DUMP=./memory.vmem
export PROFILE=Win7SP0x64

# Get basic info for a dump, including recommended profiles.
volatility -f $DUMP imageinfo

# View processes; see also pslist and psscan.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE pstree

# Dump the memory of a specific process.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE memdump -p <PID> -D dump/

# View commands run in the command prompt.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE connections

# View network connections; use `consoles` to also get command prompt output.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE cmdscan

# View environment variables.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE envars

# View internet explorer history.
volatility -f $DUMP --profile=$PROFILE iehistory
```

The best practical applications of Volatility I've seen come from [Andrea Fortuna's website](https://www.andreafortuna.org/). [Here](https://www.andreafortuna.org/2018/03/02/volatility-tips-extract-text-typed-in-a-notepad-window-from-a-windows-memory-dump/) is an example of extracting strings written within a notepad process.

### Recovering "Live" Memory from `hiberfil.sys` on Windows

In order to support hibernation mode, Windows maintains a `hiberfil.sys` file. This file can be translated into a format accepted by Volatility and other memory analysis tools. This file must typically be carved from a disk image like FTK Imager or Autopsy.

Tools like [Arsenal Recon's offering](https://arsenalrecon.com/2018/02/windows-hibernation-infographic/) can extract relevant data from these files. Volatility's `imagecopy` plugin also supports translating `hiberfil.sys` files:

```sh
volatility imagecopy -f hiberfil.sys -O hiber_dump.img --profile=Win7SP0x64
```

Useful resources include [Andrea Fortuna's post on the topic](https://www.andreafortuna.org/2019/05/15/how-to-read-windows-hibernation-file-hiberfil-sys-to-extract-forensic-data/) and [Windows Hibernation File for Fun and Profit](https://www.blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-08/Suiche/BH_US_08_Suiche_Windows_hibernation.pdf).

## iOS Forensics

TODO

## Application Forensics

### Keybase

The best research I've seen on Keybase encrypted chat forensics can be found [here](https://hatsoffsecurity.com/2020/02/23/keybase-io-forensics-investigation/).

### Signal

The [`signal_for_android_decryption`](https://github.com/mossblaser/signal_for_android_decryption) tool can be used for parsing and decrypting the contents of Signal backups on Android devices. [This accompanying article](http://jhnet.co.uk/articles/signal_backups) explains the layout of these backup archives well.

For a challenge that involves use of the previously-mentioned tool and applies an IV-reuse attack, see [caBalS puking](https://ctftime.org/writeup/31880) from HXP CTF 2021.

### Git Repositories

Looking at the changes that occured between `HEAD` and specific hash:

```sh
git show deadbeef
```
